Without a substantial increase in funding, global education targets will not be met.
    
  


In just 3 months, world leaders will meet at the Global Partnership for Education Financing Conference in Dakar, Senegal, where they will make financial commitments for education over the next 4 years.Call on world leaders to increase education fundingPlan International is calling on international donors and national governments to boost financial support for education in low and middle-income countries from $1.2 trillion today to $3 trillion in 2030. We are part of a global education coalition alongside several partner organisations that has launched a set of 10 asks for developing country governments (PDF).We are also running national campaigns in Uganda, Senegal, Pakistan and the Philippines to call on those governments to increase their investment in girls’ education.Governments must step up“All governments, including those in developing countries, need to put more money into their national education systems – ensuring at least 20% of the national budget, or 6% of GDP, goes towards education,” says Yona Nestel, Senior Education Policy Advisor at Plan International.Now is the time to put pressure on governments to ensure their pledge is substantial.“Donor governments also need to increase the percentage of their overseas development assistance earmarked for education, to 15% of the budget. Now is the time to put pressure on governments to ensure their pledge is substantial.”Today, 130 million girls are out of school. If current trends continue, over 400 million girls in low and middle-income countries will face missing out on secondary-level schooling in 2030. Yet just 2 years ago, world leaders set a target of all children being able to go to primary and secondary school for free by 2030.We will fall dramatically short of this target unless world leaders commit to increasing funding for education in Dakar on 2 February 2018.












  

    
    
      Education is essential to unlock girls' leadership potential.
    
  


Girls’ education key to developmentEducation is every child's right and is key to tackling issues such as poverty, climate change and gender equality. Educating girls has beneficial effects on society which can contribute to the development of entire countries. However, girls are far more likely to remain excluded from school.By funding quality education for all children and addressing the barriers preventing equal participation at school, we can enable girls to reach their full potential and take the lead - in school, at home and in their communities.We are the next leadersWe are calling on world leaders to support the funding of inclusive, quality education for girls so they can follow their ambitions and become the leaders of tomorrow.Time is running out for world leaders to fund girls’ education. They must act now or lose the potential of a generation.Take action for girls' education