  A few months ago, whilst I was away in Denmark, gender equality became a hot topic of conversation on my Twitter feed. As CEO of Plan International, a global organisation focused on girls’ rights, this isn’t uncommon. But this time it was different. Rather than the usual voices (like me) banging the same old drums, normal people were talking about it. And it wasn’t just on social media either. Newspapers covered the story, radio and TV shows added to the debate; even the British Prime Minister weighed in. The reason? Some crazy fool had cast a woman as science fiction character Dr Who. Follow the #Girls'Takeover That’s right. A woman. Perhaps they should rename it Nurse Who someone quipped. And all of a sudden, on the back of a fictional character, nations were debating gender equality (in some quarters without really knowing it). A few days later it happened again when the BBC published their report on executive pay; the gaps between what their top male and female presenters earned sparked further condemnation and debate. This is all great stuff, and as I scroll through tweet after tweet calling on better pay for women, and the importance of prominent role models for girls, it’s easy to think gender equality is finally getting the attention it deserves. Then I read a quote from a 15-year-old boy, talking in our new report Unlock the Power of Girls Now about how soap operas in Colombia routinely normalise violence against women and girls: “Boys see men beating women on the TV and want to do the same thing.” It’s then you realise the gulf between where we are today and where we want to be. Although conversations on gender equality are beginning to break through into the mainstream in a few countries, progress and actions to bring about change are still painfully slow across the globe. And in many countries, thanks to the rollback in women’s and girls’ rights, we’re actually going backwards. It’s ironic, isn’t it that the internet gets wound up and excited about the pay of a few celebrities and the gender of fictional characters, yet the fact that millions of girls around the globe continue to live as second-class citizens gets little or no attention. We have to change this. I believe we’ve reached a point where gender equality desperately needs a political and social revolution – giving girls the authority and permission to be thought of as equals is not (and will never be) enough. Action will always speak louder than words. That’s why the #GirlsTakeover action taking place across the world on 11 October – the International Day of the Girl, is so important. For one day a year, we give girls a platform to shout, stomp and scream about what it’s really like to be a girl in 2017. We support girls takeover positions of power to highlight the casual inequalities that curtail their education, the barriers that limit their freedom of expression and the violence that for many of them is frighteningly routine.   But the global takeover of Prime Ministers, Mayors and CEOs, is also an opportunity to showcase the power of girls. It’s a chance for girls to share their hopes for the future, and to wake people up to what we’re missing through our collective failure to engage with girls on topics that affect them. I’ve said it before and I’ll say it again: girls have the power to change the world. Plan International’s #GirlsTakeover shows that when girls get the same opportunities and choices in life as their male peers, they can transform their lives and communities. The gender equality revolution continues to whisper. It’s up to all of us to turn this whisper into a roar. Follow the global #GirlsTakeover activity at the social wall On the International Day of the Girl, girls from across the world will take over positions of power to demand a political and social revolution. On 11 October, girls will take over the positions of hundreds of leaders in 60 countries in an emphatic statement of their power and potential this International Day of the Girl.